# Computational Photography 1

{% hint style="info" %}
The calendar is generated by [this Trello board](https://trello.com/b/B6RVHEOq/computational-photography/calendar/2019/09). Download the [ics file](https://trello.com/calendar/52251e2a3cca1295530050ed/5d582d586c4781429679ea33/c760df71529d33e59129c1afea2d10cb.ics). 
{% endhint %}

## Course Description

Computers can correct flaws in traditional photography, and photographers are happy to use some or all of these tools to improve their images. Focus, aperture, and shutter may be automated alone or in concert. These fixes are just the beginning of the ways that computation will change photography. Soon cameras will make images without optics, manipulate time to sharpen the image, even see around corners to recover faces. We will study the impacts that computational photography will make on the arts, consider the consequences of new propaganda, and propose tactics to deal with these disruptions.

### Rationale

We live in a visual culture and we trust images to deliver the truth. Computational photography promises to disrupt culture and truth; our students need to recognize synthetic imagery and consider their part in preparing the world for super-cameras and seamless fictions.

### Aims

Prepare students with background on the reception of images: the physics of light, visual ecology, representational strategies, and the influence of lenses on image-making. This will give students a strong background for a second semester class where we go deep on the engineering of cameras and the unreasonable effectiveness of machine learning techniques.  

